Okay.
So on the left hand side of my screen, I've opened up our state, that TSA file.
And as a reminder, this is the file where we have our state arrow function, which returns an object
that represents our initial view, text or state.
Well, the beautiful part about this function is that it returns an object that fulfills the global
state interface.
So in other words, it returns that type of object that each one of our mutations expects to accept
right here as well.
And that kind of makes sense because of course, the way that view works is that always invokes a mutation
and always passes in the existing store state as the first argument.
And so what we have here is a sample store state that fulfills all of the properties of that interface
and has all the right types as well.
While the beautiful part here is we have this function, it's available to use.
So what we can do is imported into our mutations test file and simply utilize it in line to give us
a valid object that fulfills the global state interface.
And then we don't need to cast any of our more simple objects like this to try to pretend to be something
they're really not.
So let me show you how this is going to work.
I'm going to comment out my former implementation from the previous lesson, because I just want to
compare these two approaches side by side.
So right here I'm going to import.
My state function from the left.
That's going to come from our source directory than the store directory, than the state file.
There we go.
And here in line, I'm going to define a constant.
I'm going to call it starting state.
The only reason I'm not going to call it state is because that name is now taken in our file by our
import.
So let's call this starting state and then I'm going to invoke my state function to get back a valid
global state object if object looks exactly like this.
And then of course here for my mutation, I can pass in starting state and our assertion is probably
going to be a little bit different because now we are we have a full object with these four properties
and in this test we only care about is logged in.
So this will not work because our state object is not just going to be an is logged in property, it's
going to be that plus these other properties.
But we can modify this test to be something like this expect state that is logged in to equal true.
Right.
That's something that we can do right here.
Or sorry not state but starting state because that is our actual constant.
So I could simply check that and that could be our test.
All right.
So once again, as always, let's talk about the advantages and the disadvantages of this approach.
The obvious advantage is that we're using something that is closer to the real world.
Now, I know that may sound like a contradiction, because I've often talked about the values of marking
throughout the course, and I still stand by the benefits of marking, especially if it's an object
that is complex, or especially if it's an object that's coming from another library and is sort of
outside of our domain.
But in this case, this global state is our object.
It's something that belongs to us.
It's something that we have control over.
And for the purposes of the mutation, it's kind of intrinsically connected to what a mutation does.
The mutation has to accept the state object in order to do some kind of manipulation on it.
So is this object right here really that different from this object right here?
I would argue not really.
They're both plain JavaScript objects.
This one just has a couple more properties that we don't care about for the purposes of this test.
Right.
But it's not like the most offensive case of, you know, involving two units working together, the
state function, as well as our mutation method.
They're kind of intrinsically connected in how they work.
So I don't feel a strong, severe obligation to separate them as separate units in their respective
tests.
If it works, it works.
But if it doesn't, it's not like the biggest offense to me either.
All right.
But what don't I like about this test?
Well, that goes back to what I talked about in the previous lesson, is I feel like the story of what
this test is trying to say has been hurt in the process, because while I understand that is logged
in, should be true after the mutation runs, that doesn't tell me the story that they're supposed to
change because imagine, for example, that our mutation does nothing with our is lodged in property,
let's say our is lodged in property starts out as true and our mutation does nothing to it.
Well, in that case, this test would also pass and tell the exact same story as it does right now.
Here's another example.
Imagine our mutation ads the is logged in property.
I'm not saying that's something you should ever do in view.
I'm just saying imagine that's what the implementation does.
It creates and is logged in property and initialize it to a value of true.
Once again, a test like this doesn't communicate as effectively that is logged in is switching that
it's inverting that it's starting out as false.
Then it's going to true.
This story that I previously had, even though I was coercing or typecasting the object to me is a little
bit better because I'm saying, hey, future developer look I'm starting out with is logged in set to
false I'm running this mutation with that object and now is logged in is set to true.
I'm instantly communicating the before and the after and the in-between is the actual code that I'm
running here.
There's definitely a before, but my before is as simple as invoking a state function.
And in theory, if a developer wants to read this test file and never open this file on the left, which
they technically shouldn't, because you should be able to tell as effectively a story as you can without
having the developer have to go through as many files as possible.
So if we just evaluate these three lines of code in the right, our setup, our beginning, our exposition,
the start of the movie, if you will, is us invoking the state function.
And we know not that much about it.
Right?
We can probably hover our mouse over it and find out that it's global state.
But what does that tell us?
I don't know.
It's some kind of interface called global state, right?
Imagine that we don't have this file on the left open.
So similarly, I have some kind of object and then I'm passing it in and then some property on that
object now has a value, right?
There's still an assertion.
There's still a value that is validating that the test that the mutation is doing what it's supposed
to.
But the story that I'm telling as a developer is not as ideal, not as clear as I wish it could be.
Right.
So I like the fact that this starts out and tells me where I am.
I'm not a super big fan of the typecasting because it's kind of like TypeScript, but it has its own
advantage.
This one, I like that it fulfills TypeScript obligations for what it wants, but my story is not as
well told.
So let's see if we can take a little breather in the next lesson.
We're going to go into our playground file and I'm going to introduce you to a new TypeScript idea.
And we're going to see if that idea is going to help us be able to write a test that combines the best
of both of these worlds.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.